# 2021 December 9

## TAC Attendees (bold indicates present): (Quorum = 50%, 3 people) 
- **Nick Lawson (Amazon)**
- **Phil Keslin (Niantic)**
- **Tobias Franke (Huawei)** 
- **Bruce Cherniak (Intel)**
- Guido Quaroni (Adobe) 

**Slides:** <https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1z2GPUVXobXbEftML4SmEVd2SCxvoP0s7VG0UVOTiDRI/edit?usp=sharing> 


## Agenda
- TAC Chairperson election
- Open 3D Engine project - update from the TSC
- Open Discussion
  - Identifying other projects that may be a good fit for the Open 3D Foundation

## Minutes / Notes
- TAC Chairperson election
  - Claire Massey introduced the topic of Technical Advisory Council Chairperson elections as detailed in the Open 3D Foundation Charter and noted that the nomination period closed with only one nominee, Nick Lawson.
  - Claire Massey presented a resolution that Nick Lawson be nominated and appointed to serve as the Chairperson of the Open 3D Foundation Technical Advisory Council. 
  - Upon motion duly made by [Phil Keslin](mailto:phil@nianticlabs.com) and seconded by Tobias Franke and approved by all Technical Advisory Council members in attendance, the following resolution was approved:
  - **RESOLVED:** That Nick Lawson has been nominated and appointed to serve as the Chairperson of the Open 3D Foundation Technical Advisory Council.

- Nick Lawson updated on the current discussions the TSC is having
  - <https://github.com/o3de/community/discussions/103> - communication methods
  - Role of Sig-operations
  - Release cadence / feature versus date based releases

- Topic: Other projects that may be a good fit for the O3DF
  - Tobias asked for clarification on the scope of this
  - Royal+Nick explained that up to this group to actually determine this
  - GLTF was an example brought up by Tobias
  - Bruce brought up the Intel raytracing libraries - as an integration and a gem.  Royal recommended to forward to sig-graphics-audio.
  - Assimp was raised by Tobias as a possibility - Bruce was concerned about the reverse engineered formats.
  - Royal asked about particle engines and WWise
    - Nick brought up SoLoud
      - SoLoud has .NET stuff
      - Royal indicated he’d look into / make contact
    - Bruce brought up OpenALSoft but its copyleft…
  - NIck asked a question about how projects might impact the budget
    - Royal indicated that it was up to the governing board to allocate budget and that it wasn’t necessarily the case that a project would receive funding
  - Claire provided clarification that it’s not just existing open source projects.  And gave examples of the Linux Foundation LFEdge / LFAI.
    - Nick asked for clarification, Royal provided it, yes, we would potentially start new projects.
  - Royal: USD support, GLTF support. 
  - Royal: OpenLidar.
  - Fluid Simulation:  A question asked whether fluid sim is supported, it is unknown whether PhysX4 supports fluid sim
  - Nick reminded the council that it is not just for games, and Royal mentioned an upcoming automotive event.
  - Bruce indicated that Automotive tech would be of particular interest.
  - Nick asked about the common case of making a gem that provides 3p support as a plugin to the engine or adopting a project at the TAC level
- Steven (discord stramer \[Amazon]) (Audience) brought up a question about whether parts of the Open 3D Engine could be separated into their own project under O3DF
  - Atom being a seperate project under O3DF
  - Graph canvas - a generic graph language that can be transpiled to ‘anything’ given an appropriate backend and has wide utility (other engines, education…) consider separating and placing under O3DF
- IMGui was suggested by Tobias
- Tobias introduced RenderDoc - GPU Debugger
- Claire is setting up a WIKI for the TAC and noted that we also have a Foundation website (that isn’t the Engine website).
- Royal indicated that growth of the discord has been growing faster.  Steven indicated 24x usual traffic on the date of AWS Re:Invent
