# 2022 September 8 - TAC Meeting Notes

## TAC Attendees (bold indicates present): (Quorum = 50%, 5/9 people)
- **Nick Lawson (Amazon - Chair)**
- **Phil Keslin (Niantic)**
- **(NEW!) Chen Li (Oppo)**
- Tobias Franke (Huawei) 
- Bruce Cherniak (Intel) 
- Guido Quaroni (Adobe) 
- **(NEW!) Ethan Abeles (Microsoft)**
- (NEW!) Thomas Conrad (Epic)
- (NEW!) Fenquan Wang (Lightspeed)

## Agenda
Welcome new TAC members
Open discussion

## Minutes
Open discussion commenced immediately as we did not have quorum

- Royal spoke about metaverse and its presence at o3de con.  Pulling many groups into it and talking about it.
- Royal discussed TAC’s role and that additional projects parallel to O3DE would be at the TAC level and that there are some potentials of the works.
- Nick gave example of things like Assimp which is crucial to the function of O3DE but may need support.
- Ethan talked about internal tools at Microsoft and how they may be added to the foundation.  A discussion with Royal ensued about how the TAC might use such tools.
- More discussion about O3DECon, Royal mentioning 52 pieces of content in just those days.  Ethan mentions the distinction between O3DE, and O3DF (The foundation).
- Chen Li:  Talking about the mobile side of the engine.  Open source Architecture is a benefit and the newness of the engine too.  Lots of groups are looking to utilize the new thing.  
- Royal spoke about the modularity of the engine and separating out modules.  Royal asked a question about whether a wider separation is needed for the O3DF from the engine.  Ethan wasn’t previously aware that this was about more than the engine.  Royal indicates there’s a lot of tools out there that are not open and are not supported.
- Ethan found it helpful to have the explanation of the role of the O3DF and how it is separate from O3DE.
- Nick welcomed new members.
- Ethan asked about projects like build/test.  Mike Chang[Amazon] (Observer, familiar with the CI/CD system) explained that the build scripts and infrastructure is agnostic to game engine.  Royal explained how a related 3d project didn’t necessarily need the open 3d engine integration.
- Chen Li asking about the SIGs.  How to create the new SIGs?   Royal explains the process:  RFC with the charter is put to the TSC for ratification.  If it gets ratified the SIG is created.  Royal to send details to Chen Li.
- Ethan asked about communication.  TAC level communications go to o3df-tac@lists.o3d.foundation
