# 2022 December 8 - TAC Meeting Notes

## TAC Attendees (bold indicates present): (Quorum = 50%, 5/9 people)
- **Nick Lawson (Amazon - Chair)**
- **Phil Keslin (Niantic)**
- Chen Li (Oppo)
- Tobias Franke (Huawei) 
- **Bruce Cherniak (Intel)** 
- Guido Quaroni (Adobe) 
- **Ethan Abeles (Microsoft)**
- Thomas Conrad (Epic)
- Fenquan Wang (Lightspeed)

## Agenda
Open discussion

## Minutes
- Nick asked about the board meeting moving, its moved to january.  Proposal on mailing list.
- Royal Asked about the alternative audio drivers, whether there was outreach, what kind of work is going in regards to blender.
    -  Nick:  They’re mainly plugins for O3DE, not O3DF, and there’s been no movement.
- Discussion:  What role does the O3DF play when it comes to O3DE and engine addons, fro Ubisoft, Epic, etc.
    - Nick:  We could start with O3DE tech that primarily is for O3DE, but branches out and becomes more generic afterwards.
    - Royal mentioned universities looking at this from the point of ubiquity, 3d engine capabilities for students.  
    - Nick:  Audio engine might be interesting, for example graph canvas transpile capability - graph canvas used in atom -> shaders, terrain -> entities, script -> lua, etc.  Could it be used for audio?  
    - JT (observer) dropped https://github.com/meshula/LabSound link “already talked to the author of this engine about presenting it as an opportunity for O3DE”
    - (Discussion about Qt and GPL3/LGPL3).
    - Royal:  First step has to be a focus on what is achievable in the short term.  SoLOUD we can drive in the O3DE community itself.
    - Royal:  Just want to make sure we’re thinking ahead (scriptcanvas, metaverse).
    - Nick:  Are there other areas besides audio that are major missing areas?
       - JT:  Particle System - and no good 3d ones exist.
       - Royal:  Does it matter though, for an actual professional developer?  (Most of them will ask for Wwise anyway)
    - Royal: Anything blocking a developer from making a product with this, besides audio?
       - Ethan:  Package size in general.
          - NickL : executables?  (unknown)
       - Ethan:  Particle engine https://github.com/effekseer/Effekseer
          - MIT LICENSE
    - Nick mentioned o3de-extras repo
    - JT (observer): https://dpel.aswf.io/ 
    - JT (observer): USD Camera subworkinggroup https://wiki.aswf.io/display/WGUSD/USD+Camera
    - JT (observer):  Got a whole community in pasadena.   We will be onboarding people thru our organization into ASWF / O3DE, training low to no barrier access. Next round of initiation here.  Already pinged initial TSCs
    - Nick:  The best way to start is to root an external project to an existing engine (unreal, blender, godot, unity) and then grow it from there.
    - JT (observer):  I can validate that, (examples from ASWF).
    - Royal:  2 projects directly tied into this, engineering on top of this.  Looking to use it and build a product out of it with contributions.
