# 2022 June 9 - TAC Meeting Notes

## TAC Attendees (bold indicates present): (Quorum = 50%, 3 people) 
- **Nick Lawson (Amazon)**
- **Phil Keslin (Niantic)** 
- **Tobias Franke (Huawei)** 
- **Bruce Cherniak (Intel)**
- **Guido Quaroni (Adobe)**

## Agenda
- Is there a better location for these meeting notes and other meeting artifacts?
- Any updates on Partners / other projects that the Foundation is bringing in?

## Minutes
- Question: Do new members know about this fixed-date meeting?
    - To Follow up.  It was sent to the tac mailing list and the calendar invite should be for tac members.
- Q: Where is the TAC member list?
    - No new members appear on the list right now… Claire to investigate.
- Tobias:  asking about location for meeting artifacts and other TAC artifacts
    - Tobias: Does the O3DF have a github?
    - Claire: The foundation does not have anything like that set up right now.  Website for the foundation should be set up in the next month.  Would have a place for the TAC member list, link to the meeting / documentation and agendas could be linked from that site.
    - The Linux Foundation has wikis, under confluence (Atlassian).  Paid thing - the more content the more LF IT will charge.  Github wikis.  (Free?)  Google Docs.  We will have a place that you can intuitively nav to the TAC.  
    - Nick:  ETA?
    - Claire:  LOGOS were holding it up.  Currently its just a matter getting it built.  Linux Foundation Creative Team is working on it.  Tenative:  July.  Nicole (Director of Marketing) working on it.
    - Tobias:  Its like putting markdown files into a repository
- Agenda Item 2 (new projects/partners)
    - Epic has been added as a Premier Partner.
    - Tencent also joined with Lightspeed Studios at Premier member.
    - More to come from Royal.
    - Nick:  We should figure out if there’s anything blocking contributions or being slow to start:
      - Claire:  Marketing discussing building onboarding materials and it leads into additional things we want to spin up.  Lowering the barrier to entry (is being worked on). 
- Nick:  Driven by interest in the O3DE
    - Claire:  Yes.  Working with member companies to bring additional projects to the table, this is a big ask of them as part of joining.
- Tobias:  We should make it more clear that the call is in this channel in discord.
    - Nick: Is there a better system for this kind of call?  (The discord is an O3DF discord)
    - Claire:  We can separate the channels.  It is not critical until we bring on more projects.
    - Tobias:  I’d keep it on discord until theres new projects.  The discord needs more reorganization anyhow.
- Action Items:
    - TAC Member addition investigation.  
    - Claire:  The funding charter does not describe a TAC.   To find the charter, documentation.
    - Nick:  Need to follow the TAC process for this.
- Tobias:  We just have this one document.  We have to decide where to move it and whether to split it up.
- Nick: I’m currently assuming O3DF website pointed at a wiki for storage of these documents.
- (Royal Joins and is brought up to speed).
    - Tobias asked about the list (https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1_os1v0uW-_wCXWVocOm9ekP1U9TJ-IEeUfWb7vzA-50/edit#gid=0)
    - Royal: We can learn from our internal projects and then try to go after these externals.  
    - Tobias:  Atom being split out as a seperate project.  Script Canvas.
    - Nick:  Are those projects official yet, do we track them somewhere?
    - Royal: We can split those and start with those.  There are also external projects that we can bring in (LumberMixalot), that are external but not unrelated.  We can bring those in and make mistakes and cut our teeth and learn from them.
    - Nick:  Process for getting that started for real?
    - Royal:  Get the repos, speak to owners, space under the foundation.
    - Nick:  Who would do that?
    - Royal:  Someone should work with me on this
    - Nick:  I’ll work with Royal on this.  (Will start working on this post meeting).
      - Royal:  Github I/O Can publish it, linked from a website to a folder containing all the notes.
    - Nick:  (Actual logistics of this?).  Royal would be the POC. 
    - Royal: Figure out if someone we know has O3DF (its taken) and if not, create a new repository.
- Royal:  We need to try to identify better tools to measure our metrics.  Look around and get metrics for github and follow our growth.  Handful of tools out there.   If we’re doing it across the board, send an email or put it into the wiki.  We want to find the best tools we can use (LFX and others).  I have to assemble # of commits, what’s done last quarter, how we build these pieces, 5 different tools.
    - Respond to the TAC mailing list with details.
- Royal demonstrates a tool running in a docker container that scans the O3DE repos and generates statistics and information.
- Nick: Doesn’t LFS produce the same information?
- Royal:  It does to a certain degree.
- Action Items:
    - Nick + Royal:  Start conferring on external / internal projects
    - O3DF/LF (via Royal) - Github and Wiki for non-O3DE stuff
    - Everyone:  Investigate statistics collection / display software/containers/etc for collecting stats and displaying them?   
    - Claire/Royal: Find out if we are missing TAC members with Premiers joining.  We need to follow the charter - but we need to find the charter.  Khahil:  Add the members to the TAC as they join.  LF (Nicole) will add it to the onboarding information and checklist.
