# 2022 March 10 - TAC Meeting Notes

## **TAC Attendees (bold indicates present):** (Quorum = 50%, 3 people) 

  - **Nick Lawson (Amazon)**
  - **Phil Keslin (Niantic)**
  - Tobias Franke (Huawei) 
  - **Bruce Cherniak (Intel)**
  - Guido Quaroni (Adobe) 

## Agenda

- Proposal that the quarterly cadence is too slow, and we drop things / forget, so I’ll bring up the possibility of a monthly instead.  We can discuss.
- Continue discussing additional projects to focus on, as per the previous TAC meeting.
  - Spreadsheet at <https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1_os1v0uW-_wCXWVocOm9ekP1U9TJ-IEeUfWb7vzA-50/edit#gid=0>
  - Tobias suggested the following projects, but they have not been added to the above spreadsheet.  Everyone should have edit capability – if you’ don’t, let us know
    - <https://github.com/KomputeProject/kompute>
    - <https://www.meshlab.net/>
    - <http://mantaflow.com/>
    - <https://graphics.pixar.com/opensubdiv/docs/intro.html>
    - <https://www.openvdb.org/>
    - <http://barbic.usc.edu/vega/>
    - <https://www.openimagedenoise.org/>

- O3D Logo Poll, please complete by March 16.

  - <https://forms.gle/NyLhD1K5zdCoXwBRA> 

## Minutes / Notes

- Regarding the O3D Logo Poll
  - Royal Explained the background of why we are changing the logo (Legal reasons). 
  - Claire provided additional information (Regarding color change being similar too).
  - Stramer (@amazon) brought up the fact that option A may be linked to anti-diversity symbols and it should not be used.
- Regarding the TAC quarterly Schedule
  - Royal:  TAC is more of an overall thing than TSC and most is handled by the TSC.  By the next time there may be more partners on boarded and thus the TAC will have more to do.
  - Nick:  ARe those on the Spreadsheet?  Royal: No.  Larger partners with communities that have tools that are open source.  Translating between engines, formats.   
  - Bruce:  I Don’t mind meeting more frequently if we need to.
  - Nick:  Any movement on that spreadsheet?
  - Royal:  (No indication on movement on these)
- (Regarding other projects)
  - Bruce: Question about what Inclusion of a project into the O3DF would mean for that project in terms of ownership, etc.
  - Royal: Building the infrastructure under it to help it grow, maintain control over its roadmap and direction.  The control of it would be out in the open just like O3DE, with the sigs.
  - (more clarification here). Royal explains that it works like other projects in the O3DF.  Bruce mentions the project is already Apache2.  Royal and Bruce to discuss further.
  - Regarding ImGUI:
    - Bruce:  We attempted to reach out and support IMGUI financially, and they responded that the support was insufficient considering the size of Intel.
  - Nick (regarding Denoise):  O3DF could maintain a plugin for O3DE, and promote that, which will indirectly promote the upstream project.
  -  OpenVDB: Is it under the ASWF
    - Royal:  We could consolidate film and industry.
    - Nick:  Is ASWF part of the linux foundation?
    - Royal: Correct
  - Royal: Open a conversation with them and pull me into it.
  - Royal: Curious about tools that engineers have put together.  LumberMixalot.  
  - Nick:  Its worth contacting authors and helping them out / bringing into the founation.
  - Johnny:  There are more tools than just this.
  - Royal: (Endorses putting them in the spreadsheet and Royal contacting them).
  - Bruce:  It would be great if we could support them and give them a wider audience.
  - Johnny:  We could have a technical art community room.
  - Johnny:  People tend to lump artists/techart together and they’re very different roles.
  - Johnny:  Maybe we need an external technical tools repo?
  - Johnny: (What about external asset providers like quixel)
  - Royal:  I’m talking to some of them already, provide links.
  - Bruce: What about polyhaven?
  - Johnny: We already use polyhaven (HDRIHaven).  When we first added lighting environments, we had to convert to exr.  Now they have EXR available, so it could be a web browsing integration with o3de quickly and easily.
  - Bruce: Speaking of quixel.  They are owned by unreal wholly now. Is that dicey?
  - Royal:  Handling well.  Part of exciting news.  By the time we have the next TAC meeting it will be a very different conversation.
  - Johnny: I had a gem I called it o3de quixel bridge.  Just had some python scripts that hooked into their tool.  Their material files are highly compatible with O3DE and atom.  Export to… python script runs that conditions the data and puts it in your project folder.
  - Royal: having that kind of a tool helps me with these conversations.
  - Bruce: Relationship between O3DE and MaterialX?
  - Johnny: No correlation yet - I did a gap analysis and your osprey materials are very similar to the autodesk surface which has a reference implementation in materialX.   I know what parts of our shading model are different.  Some of it is low hanging fruit but I recommend we make a new material type (StandardSurface) that uses the same standard model as StandardSurface, improve portability across DCC tools, engines and projects.  Its not fully supported but its gaining support quickly.
  - Bruce:  We don’t support all the complexity in MaterialX in Osprey but may be able to support a significant subset.  Would be good to bring it to a common
  - Johnny:  Already supported in Hydra and Native USD.
- Nick:  HOw do we keep these conversations alive outside the TAC meeting?
  - Royal:  What about a midpoint meeting in the TSC/TAC discord?
  - Quixel Bridge:  Tech from Johnny and Royal for the TAC stuff
  - LumberMixalot:  We talk to Galib in the discord
  - Jonny/Royal:  Maybe we can combine them?
  - Royal: Let’s see if we can figure out a mechanism for that.
  - Nick:  Talk about it in the TAC/tSC channel?
  - (agreed)
- Royal:  Try to identify projects we can bring to fruition and what’s tied to them.
- Nick: (Asking for clarificaiton)
- Royal:  for example what Bruce is working on.  Having some of these use cases of products that can be taken out to market.  Identifying them.  The application of O3DE.   Or the tools.  Example, using Graphcanvas to build logical things for scientific/other nature.
