# 2024 June 13 - TAC Meeting Notes

## Attendees
### Voting Members
- [x] Sid Moudgil, AWS - TAC Chair
- [x] Nick Lawson, O3DE TSC Chair
- [ ] [Person], OPPO
- [ ] [Person], Huawei
### Observers
- Naomi Washington, O3DF
- Joe Bryant, O3DF
- JT, SCB-GameDesign

## Agenda
- O3DF Project Lifecycle Document [[Link]([url](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1RlEKawh7tlmly_j7y5x8Ls0z-deyabwyCzudJv7a6f0/view))]
- Potential new projects under the Foundation

## O3DF Project Lifecycle Document

The project lifecycle document describes how to bring new projects under the Foundation. Bryant provided an outline of the document, walked through the stages, and noted he largely followed the ASWF project lifecycle. 

Bryant Requested that the TAC members review and provide feedback as we can't onboard new projects without this being adopted. Deadline: Friday, June 28th. 

### Open Questions
1. Would new projects share a discord? Have this as a future discussion item.
2. Should we move this meeting to once a month? It was decided to move to monthly and adjust as needed. 

## New Potential Projects

Virtuous did a talk at GDC and they are open to open-sourcing that project and hosting it under O3DF. The next steps are to introduce them to different people who can support this effort.

Imagination Technologies discussing O3DF maintaining the tools that they use, PBR text tool. Possibly moving forward to open-sourcing the 3 other tools. 

Once we bring on more projects, the TAC will be used more. The TAC serves projects under the foundation, issues they are having, and setting a standard. 

## Future Meeting Items
1. Discord with new projects

## Action Items
- [x] Washington to create TAC channel in Slack
- [ ] Washington to adjust this meeting to once a month. 
